# Pendulum Beta
## Resources
[Development log](https://github.com/YuelongLi/Pendulum-beta/blob/main/Devlog.md) is available but not up to date. For implementation details, please see [documentation](https://github.com/YuelongLi/Pendulum-beta/blob/main/doc/DOCUMENTATION.md).

## Product philosophy
I want to create a virtual space for critical thinkers and the curious minded. It is a space that presumes no numeracy for its users, but guarantees for all those that enter this world a level of fluency with the language of mathematics. It will be an enabling software that gives its users the power to make their logical deductions about this world, its society, or its nature precise and accurate, and encourages users to find answers to their curiosities with their own thinking and judgement. Data will be supplied, and opinions exchanged, in the precise and intuitive form of graphs and visualizations. Indeed it will be a powerful software, but it aims to supply the power to its users in a non-intrusive way. Its appearance shall be pleasant and concise at the first glance, but its massive power is to be hidden behind that simple and clear user interface. It won't push any extravagant notifications nor attract any attentions with intention, but it will always be their at service to satisfy a curious mind. This is the community that I want to build. A tool built for critical thinkers, to explore truth from within or from without. An archive for the curious minded, and a tracker for originality. It is not just a place that emphasizes the reception of information, such platforms include the modern social medias, but more importantly a place that values equally originality and creation. It will help people externalizing their own knowledge systems (with privacy and security) and combining them with the power of modern computation, and help connect modern societies in a more collaborative and rewarding way.
## Development principles
Agile development will be the development principle when we come down to the realization of specific functionalities, but the design of all levels above the function scope must be completed with pre-planning. Only in this way can we avoid complete structural overhauls of the entire software when it comes to technical updates. Modularity and reusability will remain as an important guiding philosophy for the development process, so that we will end up with something that is robust and flexible to the end users, but also at its very core. One should enter the design of separate modules as if his mind is from that of a separate person, and that he only knows so much about the other module that it is only a black box with the input and output behaviors known. The intended information flow between separate modules will be cut down to the minimal from the design point of view, but should there be any relevant objects or variables that the "end user", namely the "other" developer that makes use of it, want specific information from the module, it should be made readily available for customization. To make the module architecture reliable, the expected behaviors and the interactions of each individual modules have to be carefully thought through, ensuring the desired end result of the product, before delving into the details of any specific modules.
